{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang16393{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.17763}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sl240\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 plot(x, y, ...)\par
Arguments\par
x\tab\par
the coordinates of points in the plot. Alternatively, a single plotting structure, function or any R object with a plot method can be provided.\par
\par
y\tab\par
the y coordinates of points in the plot, optional if x is an appropriate structure.\par
\par
...\tab\par
Arguments to be passed to methods, such as graphical parameters (see par). Many methods will accept the following arguments:\par
\par
type\par
what type of plot should be drawn. Possible types are\par
\b\par
"p" for points,\par
\par
"l" for lines,\par
\par
"b" for both,\par
\par
"c" for the lines part alone of "b",\par
\par
"o" for both \lquote overplotted\rquote ,\par
\par
"h" for \lquote histogram\rquote  like (or \lquote high-density\rquote ) vertical lines,\par
\par
"s" for stair steps,\par
\par
"S" for other steps, see \lquote Details\rquote  below,\par
\par
"n" for no plotting.\par
\b0\par
All other types give a warning or an error; using, e.g., type = "punkte" being equivalent to type = "p" for S compatibility. Note that some methods, e.g. plot.factor, do not accept this.\par
\par
main\par
an overall title for the plot: see title.\par
\par
sub\par
a sub title for the plot: see title.\par
\par
xlab\par
a title for the x axis: see title.\par
\par
ylab\par
a title for the y axis: see title.\par
\par
asp\par
the y/x aspect ratio, see plot.window.\par
\par
\b plot(airquality$Ozone)\par
plot(airquality$Ozone, airquality$Wind)\par
plot(airquality)\par
\par
\par
type argument\par
\b0 The plot function has an argument called typewhich can take in values like p: points, l: lines,b: both etc. This decides the shape of the output graph.\par
# points and lines \par
 plot(airquality$Ozone, type= "b")\par
\par
\b # high density vertical lines.\b0\par
 plot(airquality$Ozone, type= "h")\b\par
Labels and Titles\b0\par
We can also label the X and the Y axis and give a title to our plot. Additionally, we also have the option of giving color to the plot.\par
plot(airquality$Ozone, xlab = 'ozone Concentration', ylab = 'No of Instances', main = 'Ozone levels in NY city', col = 'green')\par
\b\par
2.Barplot\par
\b0 In a bar plot, data is represented in the form of rectangular bars and the length of the bar is proportional to the value of the variable or column in the dataset. Both horizontal, as well as a vertical bar chart, can be generated by tweaking the horiz parameter.\par
# Horizontal bar plot\par
 barplot(airquality$Ozone, main = 'Ozone Concenteration in air',xlab = 'ozone levels', col= 'green',horiz = TRUE)\par
\par
barplot(height, ...)\par
\par
## Default S3 method:\par
barplot(height, width = 1, space = NULL,\par
        names.arg = NULL, legend.text = NULL, beside = FALSE,\par
        horiz = FALSE, density = NULL, angle = 45,\par
        col = NULL, border = par("fg"),\par
        main = NULL, sub = NULL, xlab = NULL, ylab = NULL,\par
        xlim = NULL, ylim = NULL, xpd = TRUE, log = "",\par
        axes = TRUE, axisnames = TRUE,\par
        cex.axis = par("cex.axis"), cex.names = par("cex.axis"),\par
        inside = TRUE, plot = TRUE, axis.lty = 0, offset = 0,\par
        add = FALSE, ann = !add && par("ann"), args.legend = NULL, ...)\par
\par
## S3 method for class 'formula'\par
barplot(formula, data, subset, na.action,\par
        horiz = FALSE, xlab = NULL, ylab = NULL, ...)\par
Arguments\par
height\tab\par
either a vector or matrix of values describing the bars which make up the plot. If height is a vector, the plot consists of a sequence of rectangular bars with heights given by the values in the vector. If height is a matrix and beside is FALSE then each bar of the plot corresponds to a column of height, with the values in the column giving the heights of stacked sub-bars making up the bar. If height is a matrix and beside is TRUE, then the values in each column are juxtaposed rather than stacked.\par
\par
width\tab\par
optional vector of bar widths. Re-cycled to length the number of bars drawn. Specifying a single value will have no visible effect unless xlim is specified.\par
\par
space\tab\par
the amount of space (as a fraction of the average bar width) left before each bar. May be given as a single number or one number per bar. If height is a matrix and beside is TRUE, space may be specified by two numbers, where the first is the space between bars in the same group, and the second the space between the groups. If not given explicitly, it defaults to c(0,1) if height is a matrix and beside is TRUE, and to 0.2 otherwise.\par
\par
names.arg\tab\par
a vector of names to be plotted below each bar or group of bars. If this argument is omitted, then the names are taken from the names attribute of height if this is a vector, or the column names if it is a matrix.\par
\par
legend.text\tab\par
a vector of text used to construct a legend for the plot, or a logical indicating whether a legend should be included. This is only useful when height is a matrix. In that case given legend labels should correspond to the rows of height; if legend.text is true, the row names of height will be used as labels if they are non-null.\par
\par
beside\tab\par
a logical value. If FALSE, the columns of height are portrayed as stacked bars, and if TRUE the columns are portrayed as juxtaposed bars.\par
\par
horiz\tab\par
a logical value. If FALSE, the bars are drawn vertically with the first bar to the left. If TRUE, the bars are drawn horizontally with the first at the bottom.\par
\par
density\tab\par
a vector giving the density of shading lines, in lines per inch, for the bars or bar components. The default value of NULL means that no shading lines are drawn. Non-positive values of density also inhibit the drawing of shading lines.\par
\par
angle\tab\par
the slope of shading lines, given as an angle in degrees (counter-clockwise), for the bars or bar components.\par
\par
col\tab\par
a vector of colors for the bars or bar components. By default, grey is used if height is a vector, and a gamma-corrected grey palette if height is a matrix.\par
\par
border\tab\par
the color to be used for the border of the bars. Use border = NA to omit borders. If there are shading lines, border = TRUE means use the same colour for the border as for the shading lines.\par
\par
main,sub\tab\par
overall and sub title for the plot.\par
\par
xlab\tab\par
a label for the x axis.\par
\par
ylab\tab\par
a label for the y axis.\par
\par
xlim\tab\par
limits for the x axis.\par
\par
ylim\tab\par
limits for the y axis.\par
\par
xpd\tab\par
logical. Should bars be allowed to go outside region?\par
\par
log\tab\par
string specifying if axis scales should be logarithmic; see plot.default.\par
\par
axes\tab\par
logical. If TRUE, a vertical (or horizontal, if horiz is true) axis is drawn.\par
\par
axisnames\tab\par
logical. If TRUE, and if there are names.arg (see above), the other axis is drawn (with lty = 0) and labeled.\par
\par
cex.axis\tab\par
expansion factor for numeric axis labels.\par
\par
cex.names\tab\par
expansion factor for axis names (bar labels).\par
\par
inside\tab\par
logical. If TRUE, the lines which divide adjacent (non-stacked!) bars will be drawn. Only applies when space = 0 (which it partly is when beside = TRUE).\par
\par
plot\tab\par
logical. If FALSE, nothing is plotted.\par
\par
axis.lty\tab\par
the graphics parameter lty applied to the axis and tick marks of the categorical (default horizontal) axis. Note that by default the axis is suppressed.\par
\par
offset\tab\par
a vector indicating how much the bars should be shifted relative to the x axis.\par
\par
add\tab\par
logical specifying if bars should be added to an already existing plot; defaults to FALSE.\par
\par
ann\tab\par
logical specifying if the default annotation (main, sub, xlab, ylab) should appear on the plot, see title.\par
\par
args.legend\tab\par
list of additional arguments to pass to legend(); names of the list are used as argument names. Only used if legend.text is supplied.\par
\par
formula\tab\par
a formula where the y variables are numeric data to plot against the categorical x variables. The formula can have one of three forms:\par
\par
      y ~ x\par
      y ~ x1 + x2\par
      cbind(y1, y2) ~ x\par
, see the examples.\par
\par
data\tab\par
a data frame (or list) from which the variables in formula should be taken.\par
\par
subset\tab\par
an optional vector specifying a subset of observations to be used.\par
\par
na.action\tab\par
a function which indicates what should happen when the data contain NA values. The default is to ignore missing values in the given variables.\par
\par
...\tab\par
arguments to be passed to/from other methods. For the default method these can include further arguments (such as axes, asp and main) and graphical parameters (see par) which are passed to plot.window(), title() and axis.\par
\par
\b # Vertical bar plot\b0\par
barplot(airquality$Ozone, main = 'Ozone Concenteration in air',xlab = 'ozone levels', col='red',horiz = FALSE)\par
\par
\b .Histogram\b0\par
A histogram is quite similar to a bar chart except that it groups values into continuous ranges. A histogram represents the frequencies of values of a variable bucketed into ranges.\par
hist(airquality$Solar.R)\par
\b\par
4.Boxplot\par
\b0 We have seen how the summary() command in R can display the descriptive statistics for every variable in the dataset. Boxplot does the same albeit graphically in the form of quartiles. It is again very straightforward to plot a boxplot in R.\par
#Single box plot\par
boxplot(airquality$Solar.R)\\\par
\par
\b 5. Grid of Charts\b0\par
There is a very interesting feature in R which enables us to plot multiple charts at once. This comes in very handy during the EDA since the need to plot multiple graphs one by one is eliminated.\par
For drawing a grid, the first argument should specify certain attributes like the margin of the grid(mar), no of rows and columns(mfrow), whether a border is to be included(bty) and position of the labels(las: 1 for horizontal, las: 0 for vertical).\par
par(mfrow=c(3,3), mar=c(2,5,2,1), las=1, bty="n")\par
plot(airquality$Ozone)\par
plot(airquality$Ozone, airquality$Wind)\par
plot(airquality$Ozone, type= "c")\par
plot(airquality$Ozone, type= "s")\par
plot(airquality$Ozone, type= "h")\par
barplot(airquality$Ozone, main = 'Ozone Concenteration in air',xlab = 'ozone levels', col='green',horiz = TRUE)\par
hist(airquality$Solar.R)\par
boxplot(airquality$Solar.R)\par
boxplot(airquality[,0:4], main='Multiple Box plots')\par
}
 